have you ever noticed that little mist
that happens when you tear an orange
peel as you're as you're trying to peel
off this little mist is generated by oil
reservoirs about a millimeter or so in
diameter that hold oil and when those
are broken or otherwise stressed it will
expel the fluid so we have the spongy
stuff that's compressing the fluid
underneath the zest and that creates
pressure in these little oil gland
reservoirs and when the oil pressure
exceeds the failure strength of the zest
fluid is ejected out fluid is ejected
out of these oil gland reservoirs at
about 10 meters per second on average
and the diameter of each one of these
Jets is about the diameter of a human
hair they're also very very unstable
they they break up within about two
millimeters of the orthis because the
the droplets in these sprays are so
small they evaporate very quickly an
animal masticating on a citrus fruit
it's going to release these little these
little Jets of citrus oil that are now
carried as odor on the wind to attract
others consumers to the to the ripe
fruit
you